Pizza with homemade sauce

Make pizza for the family with a homemade base and tomato sauce. The veggie recipe is perfect to get kids involved in cooking. Top with mozzarella and fresh basil

Ingredients
300g strong white bread flour, plus extra for dusting
1 tsp instant yeast
1 tbsp olive oil
For the tomato sauce
1 tbsp olive oil, plus a drizzle
2 garlic cloves, crushed
200ml passata
For the topping
8 mozzarella pearls, halved
small bunch fresh basil

Method
STEP 1
Tip the flour into a bowl, then stir in the yeast and 1 tsp salt. Make a well in the centre and pour in 200ml warm water (make sure it’s not too hot) along with the oil. Stir together with a wooden spoon until you have a soft, fairly wet dough.

STEP 2
Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead for 5 mins until smooth. Cover with a tea towel and set aside for an hour or so or until the dough has puffed up and doubled in size. You can also leave the rough, unkneaded dough in the bowl, cover with a tea towel and leave in the fridge overnight and the dough will continue to prove on its own.

STEP 3
Meanwhile, make the tomato sauce. Put the oil in a small pan and fry the garlic briefly (don’t let it brown), then add the passata and simmer everything until the sauce thickens a little. Leave to cool.

STEP 4
Once the dough has risen, knead it quickly in the bowl to knock it back, then tip out onto a lightly floured surface and cut into two balls. Roll out each ball into a large teardrop that is very thin and about 25cm across (teardrop shapes fit baking sheets more easily than rounds).

STEP 5
Heat oven to 240C/220C fan/ gas 9 with a large baking sheet inside. Lift one of the bases onto another floured baking sheet. Smooth the sauce over the base with the back of a spoon, scatter over half the mozzarella, drizzle with olive oil and season. Put the pizza, still on its baking sheet, on top of the hot sheet in the oven and bake for 8-10 mins until crisp.



Lemon & yogurt chicken flatbreads

Ingredients
2 skinless chicken breasts, cut into strips
1 lemon
1 tsp dried oregano (optional)
1 garlic clove, crushed
pinch of cinnamon
1 tbsp olive oil
4 flatbreads
4 tbsp Greek yogurt
¼ red pepper, finely chopped
1 Little Gem lettuce, finely chopped

Method
STEP 1
Put the chicken in a bowl. Pare strips of zest from the lemon using a vegetable peeler, then juice the lemon too. Add the peel and half the juice to the chicken, along with the oregano (if using), garlic, cinnamon and oil. Mix well, cover and chill for an hour. The lemon juice will start to ‘cook’ the chicken, so don’t leave for longer.

STEP 2
Heat the barbecue. If you are using coals, wait until they turn white. If you are indoors, heat a griddle pan. Thread the chicken strips onto a couple of metal skewers to stop them falling through the grate (you don’t need to do this for the griddle), then grill for a couple of mins each side. The strips will cook through quickly so don’t leave them too long. Season if you like.

STEP 3
Warm the flatbreads on the edge of the barbecue (or on the griddle) for a minute, then transfer them to plates and spread each with ½ tbsp yogurt. Divide the chicken strips between them, then dot on the remaining yogurt and sprinkle over the pepper and lettuce. Fold or roll the flatbreads to eat.

Princess Toast

Ingredients
6 slices white bread, toasted
6 tablespoons seedless strawberry jam
1-1/2 cups buttercream frosting
6 tablespoons sprinkles
6 teaspoons silver or gold edible glitter

Directions
Spread jam over toast. Top with buttercream, sprinkles and edible glitter. Leave toasts whole or cut into shapes.
Advertisement



Chocolate Chip, PB & Banana Sandwiches

Ingredients
1/4 cup creamy peanut butter
2 tablespoons honey
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons miniature semisweet chocolate chips
4 slices whole wheat bread
1 medium banana, thinly sliced

Mix peanut butter, honey and cinnamon; stir in chocolate chips. Spread over bread. Layer 2 bread slices with banana slices; top with remaining bread. If desired, cut into shapes using cookie cutters.
